.. _design_uc02 :

Conduct on-demand processing
============================

This use case aims at using TEP Urban for submitting processing on demand driven by the Area of interest search or the data selection

1)  User registers via portal.

.. todo:: *T2* sequence diagram and description of the user interaction with Portal

2)  User selects existing service in catalogue or store and defines for which area and/or time the service should be applied in order to generate a new product.
    
.. todo:: *T2* sequence diagram and description of the user interaction with Portal

3)  User defines appropriate parameter setting (e.g., thresholds) functions of service.
    
.. todo:: *T2* sequence diagram and description of the user interaction with Portal

4)  Portal/platform sends corresponding request to the processing center where the requested service and data access functionality are hosted.
    
.. todo:: *BC* sequence diagram and description of the interaction of the Portal to the processing center via WPS

5)  Processing center generates the new product.
    
.. todo:: *BC* sequence diagram and description of the gneneration of the products

9)  New product is registered to the catalogue and result report to the portal, where the user can visualise the result and decide if chosen parameter setting was sufficient.
   
.. todo:: *BC* sequence diagram and description of the product registration at the catalogue


.. todo:: *T2* sequence diagram and description of the user interaction with Portal

10)  If selected parameter setting was not sufficient, user can modify settings and start new processing.
     
.. todo:: *T2* sequence diagram and description of the user interaction with Portal

11)  If selected parameter setting was sufficient, the new product is available for further manipulation and sharing.
     
.. todo:: *T2* sequence diagram and description of the user interaction with Portal


