.. _design_uc03 :

Develop and deploy a new service and/or new product
===================================================

This scenario aims at using TEP Urban for user development and integration of a new service within the platform to expose it as a processing service available in the thematic applications for its community or other users of the platform.

Data discorvery and selection have already described in the previous section :ref:`design_uc01`.


Development environment instantation
------------------------------------

When a user wants to develop and integrate a new service, the development environment proposed in Urban TEP is the Sandbox.

The next figure describes the sequence of operations for an expert user to provision the Sandbox.


.. todo:: 

  **BC** and **IT4I** please review the text with the name and the ref of the devel env. I called it Sandbox for the moment


.. uml::
  :caption: Sandbox instantation sequence diagram
  :align: center


  actor "User" as U
  participant "Portal" as P
  database "Portal Database" as PDB
  participant "IT4I" as CC
  entity "IaaS" as I
  participant "Sandbox" as SB
  
  autonumber
  
  U -> P : Request Developer Cloud Sandbox
  activate P
  P -> U : redirect user to developer info page
  U -> CC : instantiate Sandbox
  activate CC
  CC -> I : provision VM
  activate I
  I -> SB : start SB
  activate SB #DarkSalmon
  SB -> SB : contextualize VM to Sandbox
  SB -> I : SB ready
  I -> CC : SB ready
  deactivate I
  CC --> U : SB access information
  
    
.. todo:: *IT4I* complete sequence diagram and description of the sandbox provisioning


Developing and integrating a new processing service
---------------------------------------------------

.. uml::
  :caption: Deployment of new software
  :align: center
  
  actor "User"
  participant "Sandbox"
  participant "Validator"
  participant "Procesing Center" as PC
  
  User -> Sandbox : send upload request
  activate Sandbox
  Sandbox -> Validator : optionally request feedback
  activate Validator
  Validator -> Sandbox : validation successful
  deactivate Validator
  Sandbox -> Sandbox : package the software
  activate Sandbox #Green
  deactivate Sandbox
  Sandbox -> PC : upload the packaged software
  activate PC
  PC -> PC : deploy the software
  PC -> Sandbox : deployment successful
  deactivate PC
  Sandbox -> User : deployment successful
  deactivate Sandbox
  
This scenario is initiated by a user clicking an **upload** button on Sandbox. The Sandbox will then optionally request a feedback to Validator, to ensure the new Software complies to the required standard/specification.
When the Validator returns "successful" code, the software is packaged by the Sandbox. The software will be packaged differently depending on where this software is going to be deployed (BC, DLR, or IT4I). 
The packaged software is then sent to the selected Processing Center and is deployed there. A response is sent back  to indicate whether the software has been successfully deployed and is available for testing.

.. _test_new_software :

.. uml::
  :caption: Testing of new software
  :align: center
  
  actor "User"
  participant "Sandbox"
  participant "Catalogue"
  participant "WPS"
  participant "Procesing Center" as PC
  
  User -> Sandbox : test new software
  activate Sandbox
  Sandbox -> Catalogue : search for a test dataset
  activate Catalogue
  Catalogue -> Sandbox : dataset information
  deactivate Catalogue
  Sandbox -> WPS : send Execute request
  activate Sandbox #Green
  activate WPS
  WPS -> PC : send job request
  activate PC
  PC -> WPS : process status and results
  deactivate PC
  WPS -> Sandbox : process status and results
  deactivate WPS
  deactivate Sandbox
  deactivate Sandbox
  
This scenario is intended for testing a software that has just been uploaded and deployed in the processing center. 
It is started by the user clicking **test new software** button on the Sandbox. The Sandbox then requests for available test datasets from the Catalogue.
After the User selects the dataset, the testing is initiated by sending an execute request to WPS synchronously. The job request is then propagated to the Processing Centre, where the new software is located.
The status and results are then returned to the Sandbox for the user to investigate whether the process is successful.
  

Deploying a new service
-----------------------

.. uml::
  :caption: Publishing a new software
  :align: center
  
  actor "User"
  participant "Sandbox"
  participant "Procesing Center" as PC
  
  User -> Sandbox : publish the new software
  Sandbox -> PC : get all unpublished software for the given user
  PC -> Sandbox : a list of unpublished software
  Sandbox -> PC : publish the software (software id)
  activate PC
  PC -> Sandbox : publishing ok
  deactivate PC
  
This scenario is possible only after the new software is tested against a certain test datasets. The test scenario can be found here :ref:`test_new_software`. 
When a **publish** button is pressed in the Sandbox, a request is sent to Processing Centres to provide a list of all unpublished software for the given user. 
From the returned list, the user can select the software to be published. When that happens, a request is sent to a Processing Centre where the selected software is located. 
A response is returned to indicate whether the software is now available for all other users to use.


Using the new service in the portal
-----------------------------------

After those operations, a :ref:`class_terradue_1_1_tep_1_1_thematic_application` with the new service is available to the expert user. Then according to the authorization option applied, the user may share this application with selected users or its community (user group). The Content authority manager may also validate this thematic application with the new service and decide to make it available publicly on the portal.

